Entity caching: docs (#4195)
apollographql/router: docs/source/configuration/entity-caching.mdx

---
title: Subgraph entity caching for the Apollo Router
subtitle: Redis-backed caching for entities
description: Subgraph entity caching for Apollo Router with GraphOS Enterprise. Cache and reuse individual entities across queries.
---

<EnterpriseFeature />

Learn how the Apollo Router can cache subgraph query responses using Redis to improve your query latency for entities in the supergraph.

## Overview

> An entity gets its fields from one or more subgraphs. To respond to a client query for an entity, the Apollo Router must make multiple subgraph queries. Different clients querying the same entity can make identical, redundant subgraph queries. 

Author: I tend to use "request" when talking about HTTP requests, and "query" for GraphQL queries, but they are often used in both contexts. Here request makes more sense I think

> Entity caching enables the router to respond to identical subgraph queries with cached subgraph responses. The router uses Redis to cache data from subgraph query responses. Because cached data is keyed per subgraph and entity, different clients making the same client query&mdash;with the same or different query arguments&mdash;hit the same cache entries of subgraph response data.

Author: here that would be query, because it's specifically referring to the GraphQL query

- The product's availability in inventory. This data is from the `Inventory` subgraph.

If we were caching the entire client response, we would have to store it with a short time to live, because the cart data can change often and the real-time inventory has to be up to date. A client-response cache couldn't be shared between users, because the cart is personal. We might also duplicate a lot of data between client responses, because a lot of the products might appear in multiple carts.

With entity caching enabled for this example, the router is able to:
- Store each product's description and price separately with large TTL.
- Minimize the number of subgraph queries made by each client query, with potentially some client queries making zero subgraph queries and instead fetching all product data from cache.
- Share the product cache between all users.
- Cache the cart per user, with a small amount of data.
- Cache inventory data with a low TTL or not cache it at all.

## Use entity caching

Follow this guide to enable and configure entity caching in the Apollo Router.

### Prerequisites

To use entity caching in the Apollo Router, you must set up:

> - A Redis instance or cluster that your router instances can communicate with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Redis instance or cluster that your router instances can communicate with
```

- A [GraphOS Enterprise plan](https://www.apollographql.com/pricing/) that [connects your router to GraphOS](./overview/#environment-variables).

### Configure router for entity caching

> In `router.yaml`, configure `experimental_entity_cache`:

Author: actually we're moving it to preview now, I'll update it

- Enable entity caching globally.

> - Configure Redis, using the same conventions described in [distributed caching](./distributed-caching).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configure Redis using the same conventions described in [distributed caching](./distributed-caching).
```

- Configure entity caching per subgraph, with overrides per subgraph for disabling entity caching and TTL.

For example:

> ```yaml title="router.yaml"
> experimental_entity_cache:
>   enabled: true
> 
>   redis:
>     urls: ["redis://..."]
>     timeout: 5ms # Optional, by default: 2ms
>     ttl: 24h # Optional, by default no expiration
> 
>   subgraphs:
>     accounts:
>       enabled: false # disable for a specific subgraph
>     reviews:
>       ttl: 120s # overrides the global TTL
> ```

Reviewer: It may be helpful to add/align a comment for each to the bullet points above to the config and continue with the example given above:

```suggestion
```yaml title="router.yaml"
# Enable entity caching globally
experimental_entity_cache:
  enabled: true

  # Configure Redis
  redis:
    urls: ["redis://..."]
    timeout: 5ms # Optional, by default: 2ms
    ttl: 24h # Optional, by default no expiration

  # Configure entity caching per subgraph
  subgraphs:
    products:
      ttl: 120s # overrides the global TTL
    inventory:
      enabled: false # disable for a specific subgraph
```
```

### Configure time to live (TTL)

> Besides configuring a global TTL for all the entries in Redis, the Apollo Router also honors the `Cache-Control` header returned with the subgraph response. It generates a `Cache-Control` header for the client response by aggregating the TTL information from all response parts.

Reviewer: Is there another resource we can link to for this, or will most users understand it? I wasn't sure what I should _do_ with this information.

Author: we can refer to the MDN doc, it's a great reference https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Cache-Control

### Customize Redis cache key

> If you need to store data for a particular query in different cache entries, the cache key can be configured through the `apollo_entity_cache::key` context entry. This entry contains an object with the `all` field to affect all subgraph queries under one client query, and fields named after subgraph operation names to affect individual subgraph queries. The value of the field can be any valid JSON value (object, string, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to store data for a particular request in different cache entries, you can configure the cache key through the `apollo_entity_cache::key` context entry.

This entry contains an object with the `all` field to affect all subgraph requests under one client request, and fields named after subgraph operation names to affect individual subgraph queries. The field's value can be any valid JSON value (object, string, etc).
```

```json
{
    "all": 1,
    "subgraph_operation1": "key1",
    "subgraph_operation2": {
      "data": "key2"
    }
}

```

## Implementation notes

### Responses with errors not cached

To prevent transient errors from affecting the cache for a long duration, subgraph responses with errors are not cached.

### Authorization and entity caching

> When used alongside the router's [authorization directives](./authorization), cache entries are separated by authorization context. If a query contains fields that need a specific scope, the requests providing and not providing that scope have different cache entries. This means that data requiring authorization can still be safely cached and even shared across users, without needing invalidation when a user's roles change because their queries are automatically directed to a different part of the cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used alongside the router's [authorization directives](./authorization), cache entries are separated by authorization context. If a query contains fields that need a specific scope, the requests providing have different cache entries from those not providing that scope. This means that data requiring authorization can still be safely cached and even shared across users, without needing invalidation when a user's roles change because their requests are automatically directed to a different part of the cache.
```

This second sentence could still use some breaking up into shorter pieces.

### Schema updates and entity caching

> On schema updates, the router makes sure that queries unaffected by the changes will keep their cache entries. Queries with affected fields will need to be cached again, making sure that we don't serve invalid data from the cache after the update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On schema updates, the router ensures that queries unaffected by the changes keep their cache entries. Queries with affected fields need to be cached again to ensure the router doesn't serve invalid data from before the update.
```

With entity caching enabled for this example, the router can:
- Store each product's description and price separately with a long TTL.
- Minimize the number of subgraph requests made for each client request, with some client requests fetching all product data from the cache and requiring no subgraph requests.
- Share the product cache between all users.
- Cache the cart per user, with a small amount of data.
- Cache inventory data with a short TTL or not cache it at all.

## Use entity caching

Follow this guide to enable and configure entity caching in the Apollo Router.

### Prerequisites

To use entity caching in the Apollo Router, you must set up:

- A Redis instance or cluster that your router instances can communicate with
- A [GraphOS Enterprise plan](https://www.apollographql.com/pricing/) that [connects your router to GraphOS](./overview/#environment-variables).

### Configure router for entity caching

In `router.yaml`, configure `preview_entity_cache`:
- Enable entity caching globally.

> - Configure Redis using the same conventions described in [distributed caching](./distributed-caching).

Reviewer: Do we want users to read the entire distributed caching guide, or is it enough to point them to the Redis URL configuration section?

```suggestion
- Configure Redis using the same conventions described in [distributed caching](./distributed-caching#redis-url-configuration).
```

Author: just the configuration is fine, because the entity cache does not use the in memory cache
